Cardiac Arrest Cases: Full Text

1
Urgent cardiac catheterization with coronary angiogram.
Surgery
PROCEDURE: , Urgent cardiac catheterization with coronary angiogram.,PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: , The patient was brought urgently to the cardiac cath lab from the emergency room with the patient being intubated with an abnormal EKG and a cardiac arrest.  The right groin was prepped and draped in usual manner.  Under 2% lidocaine anesthesia, the right femoral artery was entered.  A 6-French sheath was placed.  The patient was already on anticoagulation.  Selective coronary angiograms were then performed using a left and a 3DRC catheter.  The catheters were reviewed.  The catheters were then removed and an Angio-Seal was placed.  There was some hematoma at the cath site.,RESULTS,1.  The left main was free of disease.,2.  The left anterior descending and its branches were free of disease.,3.  The circumflex was free of disease.,4.  The right coronary artery was free of disease.  There was no gradient across the aortic valve.,IMPRESSION: , Normal coronary angiogram.,

2
Patient with a previous history of working in the coalmine and significant exposure to silica with resultant pneumoconiosis and fibrosis of the lung.
General Medicine
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 91-year-old male with a previous history of working in the coalmine and significant exposure to silica with resultant pneumoconiosis and fibrosis of the lung.  The patient also has a positive history of smoking in the past.  At the present time, he is admitted for continued,management of respiratory depression with other medical complications.  The patient was treated for multiple problems at Jefferson Hospital prior to coming here including abdominal discomfort due to a ureteral stone with resultant hydronephrosis and hydroureter.  In addition, he also developed cardiac complications including atrial fibrillation.  The patient was evaluated by the cardiologist as well as the pulmonary service and Urology.  He had a cystoscopy performed and a left ureteral stone was removed as well as insertion of a left ureteral stent on 07/23/2008.  He subsequently underwent cardiac arrest and he was resuscitated at that time.  He was intubated and placed on mechanical ventilatory support.  Subsequent weaning was unsuccessful.  He then had a tracheostomy placed.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,1.  Albuterol.,2.  Pacerone.,3.  Theophylline,4.  Lovenox.,5.  Atrovent.,6.  Insulin.,7.  Lantus.,8.  Zestril.,9.  Magnesium oxide.,10.  Lopressor.,11.  Zegerid.,12.  Tylenol as needed.,ALLERGIES:,  PENICILLIN.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  History of coal miner's disease.,2.  History of COPD.,3.  History of atrial fibrillation.,4.  History of coronary artery disease.,5.  History of coronary artery stent placement.,6.  History of gastric obstruction.,7.  History of prostate cancer.,8.  History of chronic diarrhea.,9.  History of pernicious anemia.,10.  History of radiation proctitis.,11.  History of anxiety.,12.  History of ureteral stone.,13.  History of hydronephrosis.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient had been previously a smoker.  No other could be obtained because of tracheostomy presently.,FAMILY HISTORY: , Noncontributory to the present condition and review of his previous charts.,SYSTEMS REVIEW: , The patient currently is agitated.  Rapidly moving his upper extremities.  No other history regarding his systems could be elicited from the patient.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,General:  The patient is currently agitated with some level of distress.  He has rapid respiratory rate.  He is responsive to verbal commands by looking at the eyes.,Vital Signs:  As per the monitors are stable.,Extremities:  Inspection of the upper extremities reveals extreme xerosis of the skin with multiple areas of ecchymosis and skin tears some of them to the level of stage II especially over the dorsum of the hands and forearm areas.  There is also edema of the forearm extending up to the mid upper arm area.  Palpation of the upper extremities reveals fibrosis more prominent on the right forearm area with the maximum edema in the elbow area on the ulnar aspect.  There is also scabbing of some of the possibly from earlier skin tears in the upper side forearm area.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Ulceration of bilateral upper extremities.,2.  Cellulitis of upper extremities.,3.  Lymphedema of upper extremities.,4.  Other noninfectious disorders of lymphatic channels.,5.  Ventilatory-dependent respiratory failure.

3
History of diabetes, osteoarthritis, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, asthma, obstructive sleep apnea on CPAP, diabetic foot ulcer, anemia, and left lower extremity cellulitis.
General Medicine
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:, The patient is a 71-year-old Caucasian female with a history of diabetes, osteoarthritis, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, asthma, obstructive sleep apnea on CPAP, diabetic foot ulcer, anemia and left lower extremity cellulitis. She was brought in by the EMS service to Erlanger emergency department with pulseless electrical activity. Her husband states that he was at home with his wife, when she presented to him complaining of fever and chills. She became acutely unresponsive. She was noted to have worsening of her breathing. She took several of her MDIs and then was placed on her CPAP. He went to notify EMS and when he returned, she was found to not be breathing. He stated that she was noted to have no breathing in excess of 10 minutes. He states that the EMS system arrived at the home and she was found not breathing. The patient was intubated at the scene and upon arrival to Erlanger Medical Center, she was found to have pupils fixed and dilated. She was seen by me in the emergency department and was on Neo-Synephrine, dopamine with a blood pressure of 97/22 with a rapid heart rate and again, in an unresponsive state.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:, Review of systems was not obtainable.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:, Diabetes, osteoarthritis, hypertension, asthma, atrial fibrillation, diabetic foot ulcer and anemia.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:, Noncontributory to above.,FAMILY HISTORY:, Mother with history of coronary artery disease.,SOCIAL HISTORY:, The patient is married. She uses no ethanol, no tobacco and no illicits. She has a very support family unit.,MEDICATIONS:, Augmentin; Detrol LA; lisinopril.,IMMUNIZATIONS:, Immunizations were up to date for influenza, negative for Pneumovax.,ALLERGIES:, PENICILLIN.,LABORATORY AT PRESENTATION:, White blood cell count 11, hemoglobin 10.5, hematocrit 32.2, platelets 175,000. Sodium 148, potassium 5.2, BUN 30, creatinine 2.2 and glucose 216. PT was 22.4.,RADIOLOGIC DATA:, Chest x-ray revealed a diffuse pulmonary edema.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 97/52, pulse of 79, respirations 16, O2 sat 100%.,HEENT: The patient's pupils were again, fixed and dilated and intubated on the monitor.,CHEST: Poor air movement bilateral with bilateral rales.,CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm.,ABDOMEN: The abdomen was obese, nondistended and nontender.,EXTREMITIES: Left diabetic foot had oozing pus drainage from the foot.,GU: Foley catheter was in place.,IMPRESSION AND PLAN:,1. Acute cardiac arrest with pulseless electrical activity with hypotensive shock and respiratory failure: Will continue ventilator support. Will rule out pulmonary embolus, rule out myocardial infarction. Continue pressors. The patient is currently on dopamine, Neo-Synephrine and Levophed.,2. Acute respiratory distress syndrome: Will continue ventilatory support.,3. Questionable sepsis: Will obtain blood cultures, intravenous vancomycin and Rocephin given.,4. Hypotensive shock: Will continue pressors. Will check random cortisol. Hydrocortisone was added.,Further inpatient management for this patient will be provided by Dr. R. The patient's status was discussed with her daughter and her husband. The husband states that his wife has been very ill in the past with multiple admissions, but he had never seen her as severely ill as with this event. He states that she completely was not breathing at all and he is aware of the severity of her illness and the gravity of her current prognosis. Will obtain the assistance with cardiology with this admission and will continue pressors and supportive therapy. The family will make an assessment and final decision concerning her long-term management after a 24 hour period.

4
Cardiac arrest, severe congestive heart failure, acute on chronic respiratory failure, osteoporosis, and depression.
Discharge Summary
FINAL DIAGNOSES:,1.  Cardiac arrest.,2.  Severe congestive heart failure.,3.  Acute on chronic respiratory failure.,4.  Osteoporosis.,5.  Depression.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This 92-year-old lady with history of depression and chronic low back pain, osteoporosis, and congestive heart failure, was diagnosed having pneumonia approximately for at least 10 days prior to admission.  In the ER, she was given oral antibiotics.  She also saw me few days before admission coming for a followup.  She was doing fairly well.  She was thought to have congestive heart failure and she was advised to continue with her diuretics.  For the last few days, the patient started to have anorexia, she did not eat well, and she did not drink well.  Her family could not take care of her.  So, she was brought to the emergency room, where she was found to have rapid heart rate with a sinus tachycardia around 112 to 130s.  The ________ was found to be dry.  She was given 1 L of IV fluids and she was subsequently admitted in the hospital for further management.,COURSE IN THE HOSPITAL: , The patient stayed in the telemetry.  The patient had significant shortness of breath secondary to congestive heart failure with bilateral basilar crackles.  She was continued on IV antibiotics and general IV hydration was started initially because of low blood pressure and low perfusion status.  On subsequently improved and stopped and Lasix was started; Dr. X, cardiologist was also placed.  The patient's family wanted her to be a DNR and DNI.  They were allowing us to treat her aggressively medically for pneumonia and congestive heart failure.  However, the patient became extremely weak, mostly unresponsive.  At this time, the patient's family wanted a Hospice consult, which was requested.  By the time the Hospice could evaluate her, the patient's condition got deteriorated, she went into more bradycardiac and hypertension and subsequently expired.  Please see the hospital notes for complete details.